“¬Allergy is the most common chronic disease in Europe. Up to 20% of patients with allergies struggle daily with the fear of a possible asthma attack, anaphylactic shock, or even death from an allergic reaction”
(EAACI, 2016)
¬¬
Allergies are one of the worlds most common chronic diseases, effecting more than 40%,, that is more than 25 million people, of adults in the UK alone. And this global phenomenon is on the rise, having seen a over 600% increase in the rate of hospital admissions for anaphylactic shocks alone, a condition that if not treated immediately can easily lead to death, over the last 20 year.
Especially regarding food allergies, with more and more pre-packaged, manufactured food, complicated labels and a never ending stream of new regulations and legislations in an era of globalization, reducing the risk for allergic reactions triggered by food become more and more difficult. And with more than 170 ingredients that have already been reported to cause allergic reactions, keeping track of this alone seems to be a difficult task.
So why not try to make life easier for such a huge number of people. Using an approach that combines Optical Character Recognition run on the Azure Computer Vision API, a cloud based translation service and any android phone, our app allows you to take a photo of a food label – in any of the by azure supported languages – let it be analysed in regard to your allergy information and it will automatically issue a warning should any potentially allergic ingredients be contained.
Especially for people with more special needs, let it be visually impaired by integrating it into services like the Seeing AI, elder people where you could integrate it into (semi) smart glasses or children which nowadays seem to be carrying smartphones everywhere anyway, this project could make a large impact. But even without any additional factors or complications, it is just a matter of convenience to have the ability of just taking out your phone, checking a label and already knowing if a product is edible for you or not. And with the multi-language support doing this on the fly while travelling becomes just as easy as doing it in your local grocery store at home.
But that isn’t all. The long term idea is to make it easier to detect allergies and determine where they come from. Most people have heard about so called “food journaling”, usually applied and advised by services like WeightWatchers or others alike when trying to tackle the few extra pounds left over from Christmas. But why not take advantage of this data? Should you happen to have symptoms occur, the app will help to figure out where they might have come from, using a mixture of analytics from your own eating habits and a database of cases, associating ingredients with possible reactions. In case of an emergency, the data could be a precious resource in determining its cause and the proper long term treatment.


https://www.allergyuk.org/information-and-advice/statistics
https://www.foodallergy.org/life-food-allergies/food-allergy-101/facts-and-statistics
